---
layout: post
title:      "Cli Projects, Grandmas, and Google.. Oh My!"
date:       2020-06-22 15:13:01 +0000
permalink:  cli_projects_grandmas_and_google_oh_my
---

As we have hit our third week learning to code I have completely felt overwhelmed and like I was way in over my head.  Not because of the material, but because of making the balance between personal life and school is incredibly difficult.  In the last two weeks, I have been spending most of my day taking care of my grandmother at her house, commuting back and forth from her place to mine, dropping my schedule to run errands for her, and other things of this nature.  I LOVE my grandma! She is an incredible woman and such an inspiration to me.  She is also a person that I never say no to.  I always grew up with the notion that we need to "respect our elders."  Sometimes this gets misinterpreted thinking that we need to bend over backward for them, but in return other aspects of our life start to wither away.  

We were given one week to work on a project, building a CLI (command-line interface) app that pulls data from the internet using an API.  That's 7 days, including the weekend, and 4 days with open office hours twice a day for us to login and ask for help on our projects.  All the resources for success handed to us on a silver platter.  I failed to look at my schedule for the week and plan accordingly to utilize these resources as much to my advantage as possible.  I could have organized my time in a meaningful way, by still helping my grandmother at a specific time, while still scheduling myself some time to work on my project a bit, accumulate some questions, and hop on the open office hours quickly to solve some issues that I stumble across.  I could have also simply just said no to my grandmother and rescheduled these things on another day.  There are probably about 20 million different ways that I could have taken advantage of this week in a more positive way, but you know.. Kayla likes to do things the hard way!  

I finally sat down at the computer on Friday and started to type. 

I watched video after video to try and catch up on things that I wasn't quite understanding.  A few girls from my cohort and I formed a little group, we talked it out a lot and helped each other.  But because we are all still learning ourselves this can only take us so far.  I hit a major roadblock. I was having trouble with my API, it wasn't loading the entire hash for some reason. Only the first item was loading.  Then my CLI was looping strangely instead of exiting the app properly. 

This was my biggest moment of growth in this course so far.  I had a project due in 2 days, with two problems I had no idea how to solve.  AND, it was the weekend.  All my resources were gone.  No Enoch safety net.  Most of the other students had finished all their projects, so of course, they won't hang around on slack to see if anyone needs some help.  

My two new best friends were google, and the Learn Instruct Video Vault.  I watched all of the walkthroughs possible. I googled everything.  I rewatched all the recorded lectures from Enoch. My entire Saturday was gone, and I didn't solve any of my current issues.  This was my time to get crafty and think... Okay Kayla, maybe you won't finish your project on time.  I take that back.  Kayla, you WILL NOT finish your project on time.  That's okay.  But you still need to get as much done as possible and turn in what you have. End of story. 

So, Sunday morning, I got to work.  I sat down, determined to figure out why my API data was returning strangely.  After 4 hours of googling and watching Enoch's lectures again, I realized... The whole time my API was working perfectly fine. Initially, I had been using IRB to play around with my API, and here it was working just fine. I was following along with the video walkthrough for the Petfinder app. My entire hash pulls up just fine and I can manipulate the data just like hers. Good.  The thing was.. when I was going back to watch Enoch's lecture, he was using pry to play with his API data.  When I pull up the hash in pry you can't use the touchpad to scroll through it. I didn't know that... So, it appears as only one item from the whole hash.  Out of frustration, I opened the terminal program from my computer (separate from VScode) and because the window was larger I saw one and a half items... This was strange.  And I noticed at the beginning of the hash shows the opening curly brackets and square brackets, but they didn't close at the end.. to view the entire hash I just needed to press the down arrow on my keypad.. I have never had a moment of excitement and anger this strong in my life.  I was screaming and laughing so loud my roommate came in to make sure I was okay.  I felt all of the emotions possible all at the same time.  I was so happy to have solved my problem all on my own. Then ashamed because it took me Friday, Saturday, and a bit of Sunday to figure out I only needed to press the down arrow... Back to being happy. Then mad at myself again. Then excitement all over. 

Onward to my next task.  

My CLI's strange loop back to the beginning of the menu instead of exiting. I was using a "while loop", similar to the example Avi had shown us in one of his videos.  As I was adding information and more menus to my CLI that's when it started breaking.  I'm still unsure of why it broke to begin with, but after some time of tinkering and nothing happening I switched it to an if/else statement and that seemed to do the trick.  I still have it written down to ask someone, because I really want to know why it didn't work.  I have a hard time letting go of things when I am not sure why something doesn't work properly, or even when I don't know why something is working.  I like to know why all the pieces fit together before moving on, but this seems to be a tricky thing when you're learning to code.

These were my two main problems, to begin with, once these were solved I was thinking the rest would just be smooth sailing.  Maybe I am still a naive baby bird of a developer.. but I learned quickly I broke it again. By the end of Sunday, my brain was hurting, and I decided to call it a day.  Getting my class to work with my API was something that I needed an actual person to help me with.  Simply a concept I didn't understand.  I already felt extremely accomplished for my tiny achievements from the weekend, and even though my project isn't shippable I am still proud to show my evaluator next week how far I had gotten all on my own!
