---
layout: post
title:      "So.. Full Stack doesn't mean pancakes?..  "
date:       2020-06-01 16:28:04 +0000
permalink:  so_full_stack_doesnt_mean_pancakes
---


Hi! My name is Kayla Kingston, I am a 28 year old from a small city south of Seattle in Washington state called Puyallup.  (Yes, you get a cookie if you can pronounce it correctly : ) ) My hobbies include drawing, painting, rock climbing, and surfing. Since 2013 I was working in a medical laboratory in the Pathology department.  There, I was an assistant to our doctors and surgeons. In a nutshell, I would make microscope slides for rapid evaluations of different types of cancers.  This was a great job, it had all the benefits and pay that a girl could ask for.  Fast forward to 2018, and my Portuguese grandmother was getting a bit older and sicker and she needed some help.  I went traveling for a bit and wound up in a small beach town in Portugal to help out with her needs. Maybe also surf a bit too.. haha  Being an American in Portugal makes it difficult to find good work.  There is definitely a need for work, but the wages are so low that it makes it hard to make a steady comfortable living. Since I am from the US, and I am not really accustomed to working 40-50 hour work weeks making a whopping 4 euros an hour I decided after 3 years of traveling back and forth that I should look for a more sustainable way of living.  Laboratory work in Portugal is nearly impossible because of the difference in European credentials.  I also didn't go to university, so that narrowed my options in Portugal almost completely.  

Fast forward again to March 2020.  I was working a little at a local coffee shop, and with COVID-19 gaining speed, it had closed the Padaria, as well as most other local businesses.  I spent the next 2 months at home, taking some web design courses trying to satisfy the need to learn something new. ..because why not? I learned HTML, CSS, and a dusting of JavaScript. Started a few "self-projects."  I gave some of my favorite websites or businesses a "Kayla facelift."  Meaning, I made things flow better, made it more visually appealing, and enjoyable.  This stemmed into my curiosity to learn more and gave me the idea that I could actually do this for a living.  

I have a friend named, Joachim, he does some security IT work for a Lisbon company.  He would just throw more and more tutorials at me, and eventually told me that I should look into learning "the full stack."  My brain instantly thought of pancakes.. but that's not quite the same thing lol  He sent me the names of some schools and some more tutorials, but I was having some difficulty learning JavaScript, so, I thought a real school would probably be much more useful for me. Having fellow students and a teacher to actually talk with and explain things in a more human way would be exactly what I need.  Eventually, I ran into Flatiron School, and I just happened to work out perfectly with what I was looking for.   

I was so happy because I finally found something that was a proper way for me to learn something new that connects my artistic way of thinking to my scientific brain from my laboratory days.  And on top of it, I was given the opportunity to acquire a new skillset to open doors for a full or partial remote job.  Allowing me to travel between the states and Portugal to help out my grandmother.  It seems that with a lot of patience and simply doing the things that you love can open doors to the direction that you need to take : )
